---
title: "Together towards Good Governance Project"
vystupy:
  - news
oldUrl: "/en/news/press-releases-2016/together-towards-good-governance-project/"
date: 2016-04-12
perex: "<p></p>"
---

<!-- imported from the old website -->

<p>Since 1 January 2014, the Office of the Public Defender of Rights has been implementing the “Together towards Good Governance” project (Reg. No. CZ.1.04/5.1.00/81.00007). The project is financed from the European Social Fund through operational programme Human Resources and Employment and the State budget of the Czech Republic.</p> <p>The main objective of the project is to identify opportunities for increasing effectiveness of the work of the Office of the Public Defender of Rights (hereinafter “the Office”) with the use of international co-operation.</p> <p>The key activities of the project focus on exchange and comparison of experience and good practice examples with international partners, education of professional staff of the Office, organisation of training seminars, round tables and conferences for target groups, stays and internships for students and activities to raise public awareness about the competence of the Public Defender of Rights.</p> <p>The following are the target groups of the project:</p> <ul> <li>local governments and regional authorities, their administrative bodies, organisations established or founded by them and their employees</li> <li>governmental authorities and organisations established by them </li> <li>Employers</li> <li>NGOs</li> <li>Students</li> </ul> <p>The Office of the Public Defender of Rights (Slovakia) and Alapvető Jogok Biztosának Hivatala – The Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights (Hungary) are the project partners.</p> <p>The project included especially the following activities during the last four months:</p> <p>1)      3 individual international visits with partners and co-operating organisations </p> <p>1 two-day visit to Spain (Oficina del Defensor del Pueblo)</p> <p>Topics of individual visits – exchange of experience and sharing good practice in the following areas:</p><ul><li><span style="line-height: 17.92px; font-size: 12.8px;">comparison of working methods of the Czech and the Spanish national preventive mechanisms</span></li><li><span style="line-height: 17.92px; font-size: 12.8px;">comparison of working methods in the area of public relations</span></li><li><span style="line-height: 17.92px; font-size: 12.8px;">professional education of employees</span></li><li><span style="line-height: 17.92px; font-size: 12.8px;">comparison of working methods in the area of equal treatment</span></li><li><span style="line-height: 17.92px; font-size: 12.8px;">inclusive education</span></li></ul> <p>Two-day visit in Georgia (Office of Public Defender of Georgia)</p> <p>Topics of individual visits – exchange of experience and sharing good practice in the following areas:</p><ul><li><span style="line-height: 17.92px; font-size: 12.8px;">comparison of working methods of the Czech and the Georgian national preventive mechanisms</span></li><li><span style="line-height: 17.92px; font-size: 12.8px;">professional education of employees</span></li><li><span style="line-height: 17.92px; font-size: 12.8px;">public relations – communication with the specific target groups</span></li></ul> <p>Two-day visit to Hungary (the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights; Equal Treatment Authority)</p> <p>Topics of individual visits – exchange of experience and sharing good practice in the following areas:</p><ul><li><span style="line-height: 17.92px; font-size: 12.8px;">comparison of good and bad practices in the area of involving consulting experts in OPCAT visits</span></li><li><span style="line-height: 17.92px; font-size: 12.8px;">public relations and professional education of the employees</span></li></ul> <p>2) 8 seminars for public administration and NGOs in Zlín, Olomouc, Ústí nad Labem, Liberec, České Budějovice, Brno and Jihlava</p> <p>Topics: local fees; assistance in material need and housing benefits; social and legal protection of children in the Defender’s practice; public roads; benefits for persons with disability. </p> <p>Total number of participants: 194.</p> <p>3) 7 round tables for public administration, non-profit organisations and employers in Brno</p> <p>Topics: legal aspects of activities of facilities for children requiring immediate assistance; selected aspects of the activities of health insurance companies; provision of information on pay and benefits; selected issues of distraint and insolvency proceedings; discrimination in the area of labour law; selected aspects of administrative punishment by Labour Inspectorates in the Defender’s practice.</p> <p>Total number of participants: 144.</p> <p>4) 3 seminars for students of higher vocational schools in Brno and in Prague</p> <p>Topic: the Public Defender of Rights and her activities.</p> <p>Total number of students: 87.<span style="line-height: 17.92px; font-size: 12.8px;"> </span></p> <p>5) 2 informative and awareness-raising meeting “We take interest in you” in libraries as part of the Defender’s visits in the individual regions – Plzeň Region: Plzeň, Southern Bohemian Region: Tábor </p> <p>Topics: (un)equal employment opportunities</p> <p>Total number of participants: 41.<span style="line-height: 17.92px; font-size: 12.8px;"> </span></p> <p>6) 3 informative and awareness-raising meetings in schools in Plzeň, Vodňany and Brno</p> <p>Topic: diversity in schools.</p> <p>Total number of participants: 114.</p> <p>7) 1 informative and awareness-raising meeting in a socially excluded area in České Budějovice</p> <p>Topic: Discrimination in the area of schooling, housing, employment and access to services.</p> <p>Total number of participants: 7.</p> The project outputs and indicators are carried out according to the set timetable.
