---
title: "Age discrimination at work"
vystupy:
  - news
oldUrl: "/en/news/press-releases-2019/age-discrimination-at-work-1/"
date: 2019-03-19
perex: "<p></p>"
---

<!-- imported from the old website -->

<p>The Defender inquired into a complaint where the complainant alleged that his employer was <span style="font-size: 12.8px;">discriminating against employees because of their age. Allegedly, employees over 65 years </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">of age were being offered less favourable contracts as concerned their term, number of </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">working hours and sources of funding. The complainant filed a complaint against unequal </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">treatment at the District Labour Inspectorate. Shortly after the employer learnt about this </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">fact, it informed the complainant that his contract would not be extended. The Inspectorate </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">carried out an inspection and found a violation of the prohibition of discrimination, but did </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">not initiate administrative proceedings. After one year had passed, the employer’s liability </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">for an administrative offence expired.</span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;"> </span></p> <p>Defender´s inquiry into the case confirmed that the employer had committed discrimination on <span style="font-size: 12.8px;">grounds of age. The employer applied rules according to which employees over 65 years of </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">age were mainly offered fixed-term contracts and their salaries were paid from an </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">institutional (i.e. certainly available) budget only up to 50% of their working hours; the </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">remuneration for the remaining working hours depended on limited grant money. These </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">rules meant that the numbers of hours worked by employees over 65 were often reduced.</span></p> <p>Younger employees were offered indefinite-term full-time contracts and their salaries were <span style="font-size: 12.8px;">largely paid from the institutional budget. This conduct was not justified by objective </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">reasons based on the nature of their work (they were research workers).</span></p> <p><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">As concerns the Inspectorate’s activities, Ombudwoman concluded that it had made an error as it had disclosed the identity of the complainant to the employer, which potentially infringed on </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">the complainant’s legitimate interests beyond the scope necessary to conduct an </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">inspection; it had also failed to deal with the complainant’s complaint without delay, and </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">despite having identified a justified suspicion that an offence had been committed, it had </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">failed to initiate administrative proceedings.</span></p> <p>Ombudswoman did not consider the authority’s subsequent measures sufficient and so she issued a final statement where she suggested additional remedial measures, inter alia that the Inspectorate <span style="font-size: 12.8px;">ensured that inspectors in future inspections would not disclose the complainant’s identity </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">unless the statutory conditions were met (i.e. that the complainant consents to the </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">disclosure of his or her identity and such procedure is necessary to ensure proper finding of </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">facts).</span></p> <p>The inspectorate adopted the proposed remedial measures and promised that all inspectors <span style="font-size: 12.8px;">would comply with my recommendations and observe the described lawful procedure. The Defender </span><span style="font-size: 12.8px;">subsequently closed the case.</span></p>
